*
YOU IN THE GAME.
YOU WANT TO GET MONEY,
YOU WANT TO BUY HOUSES,
YOU WANT TO BUY CARS.
THAT'S WHAT YOU
WANT AND SOMETIMES
YOU LAND ON THE JAIL PART.
YOU GOTTA TAKE THE TIME.
YOU REALIZE YOU IN
JAIL WHEN YOU WAKE UP
AND YOU CAN'T GO NOWHERE AND
YOU JUST WALK AROUND.
CAN'T GO TO THE STORE,
GO IN YOUR POCKET
AND CAN'T PULL OUT NO
MONEY OR NO NOTHING.
I DON' T THINK THAT
I'M A CRIMINAL.
I JUST SEE MYSELF
AS A YOUNG MAN
THAT MADE A BAD
CHOICE BASICALLY.
BUT I'M SCARED FOR
THE OUTSIDE WORLD.
IT JUST MAKES ME NERVOUS AND I
THINK ABOUT IT A LOT.
I'M FRANK DODY.
I'M THE PRINCIPLE OF
ISLAND ACADEMY.
A HIGH SCHOOL LOCATED ON
RIKER'S ISLAND.
MOST OF OUR STUDENTS ARE 16 TO
18 YEARS OF AGE ALTHOUGH WE DO
PROVIDE EDUCATION FOR GUYS
OVER 21 AND MOST OF THEM HAVE
BEEN INVOLVED IN SOME WAY IN
THE DRUG INDUSTRY.
MY NAME IS TRAVIS BERRY,
I'M 18.
I'M HERE FOR THE
POSSESSION OF DRUGS.
JAIL IS THE DOWNFALL FOR..
THE PRICE THAT YOU PAY
OF SELLING DRUGS OR
WHATEVER CRIME YOU COMMIT.
THE AVERAGE KID WHO COMES
THROUGH HERE IS TELLING US THE
SAME STORY AND THAT IS I
DIDN'T GO TO SCHOOL OUTSIDE.
I DIDN'T GO TO SCHOOL THERE.
WHY WOULD I GO TO SCHOOL NOW
THAT I'M INCARCERATED?
IN THE EARLY WEEKS IN
THERE TIME WITH US,
THAT'S THE KID
WE'RE LIVING WITH.
WE'RE LIVING WITH A
DISINTERESTED, UNMOTIVATED KID
WHO DOESN'T BELIEVE THAT
HE CAN BE A STUDENT.
WHEN I GO HOME, WHATEVER
I DO THAT GOT ME HERE,
I'M GONNA DO
SMARTER, THAT'S IT.
I'M GONNA JUST DO IT SMARTER.
I AIN'T GONNA FRONT FOR
THE CAMERA AND LIE,
I'M GONNA KEEP IT REAL
AND DO WHAT I DO.
I'M GONNA GET A JOB BUT I'M
STILL GONNA DO WHAT I DO.
I KNOW I'M NOT GONNA COME
BACK CAUSE I CAN'T BUT,
I'M STILL GONNA DO WHAT I DO.
ONCE THEY'VE BEEN
WITH US AWHILE,
ONCE WE'VE GIVEN THEM SUCCESSFUL
ACADEMIC EXPERIENCES,
ONCE THEY'VE MET THE NURTURING
TEACHERS THAT WE HAVE HERE,
THEY BEGIN TO BELIEVE THAT
THEY CAN BE STUDENTS.
THEY BEGIN TO
CHANGE THE VISION
OF THEMSELVES IN
INCARCERATION.
AND WE HOPE, AND WE HAVE
COUNCILLORS WHO HELP US
PREPARE THIS, THAT THEY CAN
BEGIN TO VISION THEMSELVES
AS SOMEBODY DIFFERENT
IN SOCIETY,
THEN THEY WERE GOING TO
BE BEFORE THEY MET US.
THE MAJOR THRUST OF THIS
SCHOOL IS IMPROVING LITERACY.
ILLITERACY IS RAMPANT IN
THE JAIL POPULATION.
IT IS RAMPANT IN THE
ADOLESCENT POPULATION
THAT WE SERVE.
SO ALTHOUGH WE OFFER COMPUTERS
AND ART AND BARBERING AND
SOCIAL STUDIES, EVERYBODY HAS
A STAKE IN HELPING THE KIDS BE
MORE LITERATE SO THEY COULD
READ AND WRITE AND THEN
PARTICIPATE IN EDUCATION
PROGRAM WHEN THEY LEAVE US.
AS WE WERE SAYING GIRLS, WE
WERE TALKING ABOUT ONE OF THE
NOTED SHORT STORY
WRITERS AND POETS.
AND I WANTED TO INTRODUCE
YOU TO EDGAR ALLAN POE
WHO WROTE THE RAVEN.
HAVE ANY OF YOU EVER
HEARD OF THE RAVEN ?
THE RAVEN I'M NOT...
NO.
ALRIGHT.
BECAUSE BEING INCARCERATED IS
LIKE IT MAKES YOU SIT THERE
AND THINK LIKE WHEN I
GO ON THE OUTSIDE,
I KNOW WHAT TO DO NOW.
AND HOW TO MOVE.
I KNOW NOT TO DO THIS BECAUSE
THIS WILL GET ME IN TROUBLE
AND I DON'T WANT TO GO BACK,
I WANT TO GO FORWARD.
AT FIRST, I GOTTA
GET MY G.E.D.
IN ORDER TO DO ANYTHING.
THEN I'M GONNA GO TO COLLEGE
AND THAT'S GONNA BE MY MAJOR.
CRIMINAL JUSTICE, I'M GONNA
MAJOR IN CRIMINAL JUSTICE.
I WANT TO GO HOME.
I WANT TO BE A LAWYER BUT
I WRITE A LOT.
I'M WRITING A BOOK RIGHT NOW.
IT'S A POETRY BOOK.
I WRITE POETRY.
AND MR. KING THE TEACHER,
HE'S HELPING ME.
MY POEM'S CALLED PEACE.
SOMETIMES I WISH THE WORLD
COULD BE AT PEACE.
NO COPS THROWING PEOPLE FACE
FIRST ON THE CONCRETE.
MY HEART SKIP BEATS CAUSE
I'M IN PAIN.
THINGS ARE ON FIRE
SURROUNDED BY FLAMES.
CAN YOU SEE THESE COLORS,
WHAT DO THE MEAN?
IF YOU DON'T KNOW,
I'LL TELL YOU.
THEY MEAN I'M A
BRIGHT YOUNG LADY.
I DREAM PLENTY OF DREAMS,
DREAMS TO BE FREE EVERYDAY.
DREAM I'LL GO TO A
BETTER PLACE.
*
THIS IS THE BARBERY CLASS.
THIS IS WHERE HE'LL LEARN THE
BASIC SKILLS NECESSARY TO GO
OUT AND GET WHAT WE CALL
A JOB CUTTING HAIR.
ONE OF THE GREAT ADVANTAGES OF
THIS PARTICULAR CLASS IS THAT
ONCE A STUDENT FINISHED THIS
CLASS, AND HE GOES HOME,
THIS IS ONE OF THE FEW ROOMS
THAT HE'LL BE ABLE TO LEAVE
AND GO HOME AND BE ABLE
TO GET SOME EMPLOYMENT.
THAT'S WHY THIS CLASS
IS SO IMPORTANT.
IF I CAN GET THEM TO
UNDERSTAND THAT THESE WILL BE
TOOLS THAT THEY WILL BE ABLE
TO USE WHEN THEY LEAVE HERE.
THESE WILL BE SERVICES THAT
EVEN BARBERS ON THE OUTSIDE
ARE NOT ACCUSTOMED TO DOING
ON A REGULAR BASIS.
BUT THEY'LL LEARN TO DO THEM
HERE SO THERE WILL BE A CARRY
OVER WHEN THEY LEAVE AND HAVE
AN EDGE I LIKE TO CALL IT.
SO THIS IS A GREAT OPPORTUNITY
FOR THEM TO START THAT PROCESS
OF FINDING SOMETHING
THAT THEY CAN HAVE
AND FEEL COMFORTABLE ABOUT.
SEE, ONCE THESE GUYS YOU SEE
WHEN THEY COME IN THE ROOM.
ONCE THESE GUYS START TO CUT
HAIR, THERE IS A SENSE OF
CONFIDENCE THAT YOU'LL
SEE NO OTHER PLACE.
I CAN, I CAN ACCOMPLISH,
I CAN DO.
AND NOW ALL I NEED THEM TO
DO IS TO HOLD ON TO THAT
WHEN THEY CROSS THAT
BRIDGE TO FREEDOM.
I GET STORIES ALL THE TIME
ABOUT GUYS OUT WORKING IN THE
CITY THAT USED TO COME HERE.
MATTER OF FACT, SOMEBODY
TOLD ME A FEW WEEKS AGO,
MR. PARKER DO YOU
KNOW A CERTAIN KID?
HE CALLED HIS NAME AND I SAID
WELL, I DON'T REMEMBER HIM.
YA BUT HE SAID HE GOT
HIS TRAINING RIGHT HERE
AT OUR ACADEMY.
AND THAT'S ALWAYS GOOD NEWS TO
HEAR WHEN YOU GOT GUYS THAT
ARE REALLY TAKING
ADVANTAGE OF THIS SKILL.
AND IT'S A SKILL THAT CAN
LAST THEM A LIFETIME.
WELL, WE'VE COME TO REALIZE A
COUPLE OF THINGS: FIRST OF ALL,
WE'VE COME TO REALIZE THAT
WE CAN'T DO IT OURSELVES.
YOU KNOW, UNDER THE LAW OUR
RESPONSIBILITY IS TO HOLD
PEOPLE PENDING TRIAL OR WHILE
THEY SERVE THEIR SENTENCE AND
WE HAVE NO REAL OBLIGATION TO
THEM OR STATUTORY RELATIONSHIP
WITH THEM ONCE THEY LEAVE.
HOWEVER, WE'VE TAKEN IT UPON
OURSELVES TO ORGANIZE A
COLLABORATION AMONG MORE THAN
40 COMMUNITY BASED PARTNERS,
NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS,
OTHER CITY AGENCIES,
SOCIAL SERVICE PARTNERS,
ADVOCACY ORGANIZATIONS,
LEGAL SERVICES
ORGANIZATIONS, TO FOCUS ON
HELPING THE INDIVIDUALS
WHO LEAVE OUR JAILS,
BE SUCCESSFUL UPON RELEASE
AND REDUCE THE LIKELIHOOD
THEY COME BACK.
MY NAME IS BRIANA VAN HEYDORN.
I'M HERE FROM C.E.O.,
THE CENTER FOR EMPLOYMENT
OPPORTUNITIES.
C.E.O. IS A TRANSITIONAL
EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM.
YOU WORK WITH US TEMPORARILY
DOING LIGHT MAINTENANCE,
CONSTRUCTION, LANDSCAPING
AND WE'LL HELP YOU SECURE
AND MAINTAIN A PERMANENT JOB.
A PERSON IS FIRST
INTRODUCED TO C.E.O.
AT ORIENTATION IN E.M.T.C.
ON RIKERS ISLAND.
AND THE COUNCIL WILL GO IN OR
I WILL GO IN AND EXPLAIN WHAT
THE PROGRAM IS, TALK TO PEOPLE
ABOUT WHAT IT IS THAT WE DO,
WHAT THEY COULD EXPECT WHILE
THEY'RE HERE IN THE FACILITY.
DEMOLITION IS SOMETHING
I WOULDN'T MIND DOING
BUT IF I HAD A CHOICE
I WOULD RATHER PICK.
CAN YOU THINK OF ANYTHING ELSE
THAT MAYBE YOU HAVEN'T DONE
BEFORE BUT YOU ARE
INTERESTED IN DOING?
I NEVER HAD NO EXPERIENCE IN
LIKE BEING AN ELECTRICIAN BUT
I WOULD LIKE TO
DO THAT TOO.
OK, BECAUSE ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT WE WOULD WANT TO DO...
NOBODY IS GOING TO STAY ON A
JOB THEY DON'T LIKE RIGHT?
IF I DIDN'T
LIKE MY JOB,
I WOULDN'T COME TO
JAIL EVERYDAY RIGHT?
SO WHAT WE WANT TO DO IS NOT
ONLY PUT YOU IN A JOB THAT YOU
WOULD BE ABLE TO
KINDA STAY IN..
BUT A JOB THAT YOU
LIKE AS WELL.
IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT FOR
YOUNG PEOPLE PARTICULARLY WHO
ARE LEAVING INCARCERATION TO
HAVE A TRANSITIONAL JOB
AND IMMEDIATE MONEY BECAUSE OUR
SOCIETY IS SO MATERIALISTIC.
AND A LOT OF YOUNG PEOPLE
GET CAUGHT UP IN MTV,
GET CAUGHT UP IN A LOT
OF THE MUSIC VIDEOS
AND THE GLITZ AND
THE GLAMOUR
AND I WANT TO LEAVE WITH
A NEW PAIR OF SNEAKERS.
AND A LOT OF WHAT GETS OUR
YOUNG PEOPLE IN TROUBLE
IS CHASING THAT
IMMEDIATE MONEY.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO HAVE THAT
TRANSITIONAL JOB BECAUSE IT IS
THAT IMMEDIATE MONEY, IT'S
SOMETHING THAT THEY SEE THAT
IS HAPPENING RIGHT
HERE IN THE MOMENT
AS OPPOSED TO DELAYING
GRATIFICATION,
THAT STUDIES HAVE SHOWN
IS REALLY DIFFICULT
FOR YOUNG PEOPLE TO DO.
I WANT TO COME OUT
WITH A PLAN.
I DON'T WANT TO COME OUT THERE
WITH JUST .. NOTHING TO DO.
THE FASTER I LEFT, THE FASTER
I'LL BE RIGHT BACK IN HERE.
I'M GLAD YOU
SAID THAT.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS
YOU MAYBE SHOULD DO
IS MAKE THAT PLAN AS
TIGHT AS POSSIBLE
SO WHEN YOU SIT DOWN
WITH THAT JOB COACH,
YOU SAY LOOK, I ALREADY
GOT MY PLAN, LET'S GO.
YOU KNOW, HOW CAN
YOU HELP ME?
RIGHT?
JOB COACHES LOVE TO
SEE THAT BECAUSE
WE DON'T WANT
PEOPLE THAT ARE LIKE...
WELL WE GOTTA PULL
TEETH AND YOU SEEM..
YOUR WELL ON YOUR WAY
TO DOING YOUR THING.
THAT'S FABULOUS.
I BELIEVE THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN A KID
WHO ENDS UP COMING BACK
HERE AND ONE WHO FINDS
A LEGITIMATE PLACE
IN SOCIETY,
IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN ONE
WHO FINDS A SUPPORT SYSTEM
IN THE COMMUNITY AND
ONE WHO DOESN'T.
THAT SUPPORT SYSTEM
COULD BE THEIR FAMILY,
COULD BE A C.B.O.,
THAT SUPPORT SYSTEM
COULD BE A GOOD FRIEND
WHO'S TURNED HIS
OWN LIFE AROUND,
OR A MENTOR.
IT DOESN'T MATTER
WHO IT IS,
WHAT ORGANIZATION,
BUT NO KID IN THIS SOCIETY
IS GONNA MAKE IT WITHOUT
THE SUPPORT OF SOMEBODY
ELSE HELPING THEM TO MAKE
THE RIGHT DECISIONS
ALONG THE WAY.
*
MY NAME IS JAHMAR MOORE.
I'M 19.
I'VE BEEN INCARCERATED 3 TIMES.
THE FIRST TIME ROBBERY.
THE SECOND TIME A
GUN CHARGE
AND THE THIRD TIME
POSSESSION OF CRACK.
MY NAME IS JAMILAH CLARK AND I
AM THE DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY
SERVICES FOR AN AGENCY CALLED
ADOLESCENT REENTRY INITIATIVE.
WE WORK WITH YOUNG
MEN AGES 16 TO 19
PROVIDING REENTRY SERVICES.
THE OVERARCHING
GOAL, I WOULD SAY,
IS TO HELP THEM NOT
COME BACK TO JAIL.
THE WAY THAT USUALLY LOOKS IS
WE HELP CONNECT THEM TO
PROGRAMS, EITHER VOCATIONAL
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS,
SUBSTANCE ABUSE,
MENTAL HEALTH,
WHATEVER IT IS THEY NEED
TO GET BACK ON THE PATH
SO THEY DON'T END
UP BACK HERE.
WE DO TYPICALLY 3 TO 4
DISCHARGE PLANNING SESSIONS
WHILE THE YOUNG MAN IS
STILL HERE AT RIKERS.
LOGISTICALLY, IT'S
TO GET INFORMATION
ABOUT THE YOUNG PERSON AND SEE
WHAT THEIR INTERESTS ARE,
DEVELOP A DISCHARGE PLAN
FOR WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO
WHEN THEY GET OUT.
IT ALSO HELPS WITH BONDING.
BECAUSE WE ARE AN INTENSIVE
CASE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.
WE DO HOME BASED CASE
MANAGEMENT.
THE MOST IMPORTANT
CONNECTION IS BETWEEN
THE CASE MANAGER
AND THE CLIENT.
I MET JAHMAR IN APRIL OF 2006
AND WORK WITH HIM
APPROXIMATELY 5 OR 6
WEEKS UNTIL HE'S RELEASE
IN MAY OF 2006.
TO MEET HIM, YOU KNOW RIGHT
AWAY THAT HE'S A YOUNG MAN
WITH A LOT OF DREAMS, A LOT OF
PASSION FOR LIFE AND SIMPLY
JUST DOESN'T NECESSARILY
HAVE THE TOOLS
TO KNOW HOW TO GET FROM
POINT A TO POINT B
AND SO WE WORK REALLY
HARD TO TRY TO DO THAT.
I THINK THE PULL OF WHERE HE
LIVES AND HIS REPUTATION AND A
LOT OF HIS ACTIVITIES SORT
OF CONSUMED HIM SOMEWHERE
IN THAT PROCESS AND IT SEEMED
LIKE YOU KNOW A LITTLE
BIT AT A TIME I
WAS LOOSING HIM.
BUT WE FINALLY WERE ABLE TO
COME BACK AROUND AND GET HIM
TO THE POINT WHERE HE WAS
WILLING TO GO TO A PROGRAM.
HE HAD GONE TO THE
INTERVIEW, SIGNED UP,
GOTTEN THE
ACCEPTANCE LETTER...
INTERVIEW SKILLS AND ALL THAT
KIND OF STUFF..
AND THAT'S WHAT THE GROUP ON
THURSDAYS WILL HELP YOU DO.
THEY WILL HELP YOU
FILL OUT RESUMES
AND RESEARCH ON LIKE JOBS AND
HELP YOU FILL OUT APPLICATIONS
AND THAT KIND OF STUFF.
JAHMAR: I MET JAMILAH LAST YEAR
I WAS IN THE 6 BUILDING
AND I SIGNED UP TO THE
R.I. PROGRAM.
AND I WENT HOME AND
SHE WAS FOLLOWING ME,
HELPING ME OUT
AND ALL THAT.
SHE'D COME AROUND AND WE'D
TALK ABOUT STUFF THAT I DID,
HOW COULD I CHANGE
WHAT I DID...
AND THEN WHAT I WANT
TO DO AFTER THAT.
DO I WANT TO GO TO SCHOOL...
OR WHAT I WANT TO DO WITH
MY LIFE. BASICALLY,
THAT'S GOOD, THAT IS WHEN
THEY CARE ABOUT YOU.
I MEAN SHE CARED.
SOMEONE IS TRYING TO HELP ME,
SO YAH IT FEEL GOOD.
SO WE STILL NEED YOU
TO BE GOOD?
ALRIGHT.
JUST REMEMBER, THINK OF ALL
THE THINGS WE TALKED ABOUT AND
USE THE TRICKS THAT THE GUY
TOLD YOU IN TERMS OF MAKING
THE 8 DAYS GO FASTER.
ONE FISH FRIDAY AND
TWO COP OUT SUNDAYS.
THAT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE A LONG
TIME AT ALL NOW RIGHT.
IT'S NOT.
SEE.
AND THEN JUST THINK
AT 6 O'CLOCK,
THE DAY AFTER MY BIRTHDAY,
I WILL BE HERE IN A VAN.
(LAUGHTER.)
WE ARE ON OUR WAY TO
PICK UP JAHMAR.
HE'S BEING RELEASED TODAY.
ONE OF THE COMPONENTS OF
THE PROGRAM AT A.R.I.
IS TO PROVIDE A RIDE HOME ON A
CLIENTS DAY OF RELEASE.
SO WE GO AND PICK THEM UP AT
6 O'CLOCK IN THE MORNING
AND WE TAKE THEM TO
THEIR HOME.
JAMILAH: I'M EXCITED UM..
I THINK IT'S A COMBINATION
OF EXCITEMENT AND NERVOUS
BECAUSE THIS IS WHERE
THE REAL TEST BEGINS.
IT'S EASY TO MAKE PLANS
WHEN IT'S ISOLATED,
BUT WHEN YOUR OUT AND
BACK IN THE COMMUNITY..
THAT'S WHEN YOU SEE WHETHER OR
NOT YOU'RE GOING TO ACTUALLY
KEEP THE MOTIVATIONS
AND MAKE IT HAPPEN.
SO I'M EXCITED FOR HIM
BECAUSE WHERE HE IS, IS HELL.
NOT TO BE HERE ANYMORE
BUT I'M ALSO NERVOUS FOR HIM
BECAUSE IT'S A BIG THING
FOR HIM TO NOW BE IN A POSITION
TO ACTUALIZE ALL THE PLANS
THAT WE MADE AND ALL THE
DREAMS THAT HE HAS.
JAHMAL MOORE!
ALRIGHT COME ON OUT.
STAND RIGHT HERE.
WHAT'S YOUR DATE OF BIRTH?
FOR WHAT CRIME?
LET ME TAKE A LOOK INSIDE.
JAMILAH: IN TERMS OF THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A KID
WHO WALKS OUT OF RIKERS
WITHOUT A PROGRAM?
I'D SAY I THINK THE
RECIDIVISM RATE
IS SOMEWHERE AROUND
60 TO 70 PERCENT
OF THEM WILL BE BACK
WITHIN A YEAR.
GUARD: ONE DISCHARGE
JAHMAL MOORE.
OK, TAKE IT OUT.
SUP.
JAMILAH: THE RIDE HOME
DEPENDS ON THE KIDS,
SOME KIDS ARE REALLY
QUIET AND REFLECTIVE,
SOME KIDS WHO WERE
TALKATIVE IN THERE,
WHEN ON THE RIDE HOME
HAVE NOTHING TO SAY
AND THEY DON'T REALLY
WANT TO BE ENGAGED
BECAUSE OF WHAT EVER IS
GOING THROUGH THEIR MINDS,
OR HOW THEY'RE FEELING
ABOUT COMING HOME.
SOME OF THEM, YOU CAN'T
STOP THEM FROM TALKING
AND THEY WANT YOU TO SLOW
DOWN WHEN YOU GET CLOSE
TO THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD SO
THEY CAN SEE THIS STORE
AND THIS BUILDING AND
SO IT REALLY DEPENDS.
JAMILAH: WE HAVE DECIDED THAT
THIS IS OUR LAST TIME
BECAUSE WE'RE NOT GOING
FOR THIS ANYMORE.
JAHMAR: NO, I AIN'T GOING
THROUGH THIS NO MORE.
JAMILAH: NEVER EVER EVER?
JAHMAR: NEVER
GOING OVER THE BRIDGE
AND IT FEELS GREAT.
FREEDOM.
JAMILAH: WHAT DO THEY CALL
THIS THE BRIDGE
OF NO RETURN OR
SOMETHING?
JAHMAR: DON'T CALL IT THAT.
SEE I'M RETURNING RIGHT?
JAMILAH: WHEN YOU GO IN,
IT FEELS LIKE YOUR NOT
GOING TO COME OUT.
JAHMAR: I CAME BACK.
I MADE IT OUT.
MY LAST TRIP ON THE BRIDGE.
ESPECIALLY LIKE IT'S HARD
TO CHANGE CAUSE YOU GO HOME,
YOU AROUND THE SAME
PEOPLE YOU WAS AROUND.
YOU IN THE SAME PLACE,
SAME PREDICAMENT.
YOU GOTTA GET YOUR
WAY OUT OF IT.
I WANT TO BE A POSITIVE ROLL
MODEL WHEN I GET OUT.
I GOT TWO YOUNGER BROTHERS,
ONE IS 10 AND ONE IS 7.
I JUST CAN'T WAIT TO
GET OUT TO THEM.
YAH, THAT'S MY FAMILY!
JAMILAH: SCHOOL'S OUT SO YOUR
BROTHERS ARE HOME.
YAH.
YOU KNOW THEY'RE
GONNA BE HAPPY.
I JUST CAN'T BELIEVE IT.
JAHMAR: BEING PART OF THE
REENTRY PROGRAM
IS A LOT HELPFUL FOR
PEOPLE THAT GET OUT.
WHEN YOU GET OUT YOU GOT
PEOPLE THAT CALL YOU ON TIME,
TELL YOU WHERE TO BE AT.
YOU GOT PEOPLE LIKE
A SECOND MOTHER.
YOU GOT ROLL MODELS.
PEOPLE THAT TRY TO
HELP YOU A LOT.
AND IT'S JUST UP TO YOU
IF YOU WANT TO DO IT.
JAHMAR!
*